### Application Architecture

Vencore built the prototype utilizing a full open source stack. Based on the product manager's needs, we have selected **_Node.js_** to be our platform of choice. The goal was to provide a fast, efficient, light-weight web and a native mobile application. **_Node.js/Express_** platform combination provides these capabilities quite well. **_Node.js/Express_** being module driven, only the necessary modules can be installed thus making the end product light-weight and easy to install. Express provides the web framework features for Node.js applications. Like Node.js, Express is also a minimalist framework which greatly simplifies the routing mechanism. If additional features are required to the Node.js or Express framework they are installed via plugins.  This improves the overall security posture by reducing the code footprint deployed, thus exposure to zero-day vulnerabilities are minimized.  **_Node.js_** framework being event-driven and a non-blocking I/O model it is very fast and efficient when it comes to providing services for **_JSON_** based APIs as is the case with the requested prototype. **_HTML5_** and **_Bootstrap_** are used to create rich streamlined views. **_Bootstrap_** takes away the complexities in creating fluid and responsive layouts that work across multiple form factors. **_AngularJS_** provides declarative syntax for easy view and model binding.

The Vencore team created custom APIs utilizing the **_Node.js_** framework, as a wrapper, for the OpenFDA.org APIs which generates mashups for client applications to consume. Vencore’s custom REST service, parses the **_JSON_** data received from the OpenFDA APIs and creates a custom result set.  The results are provided in a light-weight **_JSON_** format to its client applications. **_The Express_** http server routes the calls appropriately based on defined routes.
 

**_Figure 1: Vencore FDASearch prototype application architecture_**  
![Application Architecture] (https://github.com/vencoreinc/18FAGILEPROTOTYPE/blob/master/evidence/18F_Diagram_001a.png)

The web application views are generated using **_Bootstrap/HTML5_** in order to support the many different form factors. The **_AngularJS_** declarative programming style helps greatly reduce the amount of code needed to bring the view and the model together. **_HTML5_** along with **_Bootstrap_** helped create web pages that easily scale and can be viewed from multiple form factors. In addition to the web application, an **_Android native app_**, based on **_SDK version 5.0_**, is built to consume the same services exposed by the FDASearch **_Nodejs_** application and provide easy access to the recall information. The web application is hosted on an **_AWS EC2_** instance.

### Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery Process

The Vencore team used **_Jenkins_** to manage the Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment process. Jobs were built to check out code from **_GitHub_** once commits are made to the repository. Jenkins then builds the code using **_Grunt_** scripts. After a successful build, Jenkins runs unit test cases written in **_Mocha_**. Once the test cases are successful, Jenkins then creates a deployment package and invokes a Dockerfile to deploy the application to an **_AWS EC2_** instance in a **_Docker_** container and starts the application. Integration tests written in **_Protractor for Selenium_** are then executed by Jenkins as the next step. Jenkins uses **_PhantomJS_** to spawn headless browser instances to run Protractor scripts. If successful, the application is deployed to a Quality Control (QC) environment. For the success of a DevOps implementation, automating as many tasks as possible in the integration and delivery pipeline is crucial. **_Grunt_**, a JavaScript Task Runner helps achieve this goal with great ease because of its many available plugins.


**_Figure 2: CI/CD process_**  
![CI/CD Process] (https://github.com/vencoreinc/18FAGILEPROTOTYPE/blob/master/evidence/Evidence-l/Evidence-l-1.png)
 
As part of the continuous monitoring of code for security, the code is scanned nightly using **_NodeJsScan_** static code analysis tool.  As the vulnerabilities are fixed and the security officer is satisfied, the code is then deployed into a production environment via a separate **_Jenkins_** job, into its **_Docker_** container.   
